uh see the barrel about four and a half
feet tall
there's nothing unusual about it except
for the fact that it's bobbing and
dunking
just above the churning chaos of niagara
falls
another moment or two and the barrels
hurtling over the edge
and toward the bottom of the waterfall
more than 170 feet down
what you can't see is that there's a
fool i mean person
inside the barrel
annie edson taylor was born into a
family with eight kids
her father was a flower mill owner he
passed away when the girl was 12
but he left enough money for his family
to have a comfortable living
so when annie decided to build a
schoolteacher career
there was nothing to prevent her from
doing it she even earned an
honors degree after finishing a
four-year-long training course
while studying she met her future
husband unfortunately their marriage
didn't last
long sadly annie became a widow
the woman spent decades of her life in
all kinds of teaching jobs
and moving between different places
years later
she ended up in bay city michigan
she wanted to become a dancing
instructor but there wasn't any dancing
schools in the city
no problem taylor opened up one of her
own
in 1900 she moved to the city of sioux
st
marie to teach music later she traveled
to san antonio texas
and even visited mexico city in search
of work
when this attempt failed she returned to
bain city
but all this traveling so exciting left
her with almost no money
and very few belongings she needed to
work out a way to bolster her bank
account
for when she wouldn't be able to work
anymore one day
she was reading a newspaper article
about the daredevils who had been riding
out the dangerous rapids
at the bottom of niagara falls an idea
occurred to her she thought
why don't i do better and actually
plunge over the waterfall
if i survive i'll become famous in truth
annie had no doubt she would get out of
this adventure alive
she was an exceptionally determined and
upbeat woman
that's why she immediately got down to
work putting her plan into action
and he wasn't naive enough to believe
she would manage to survive the fall
without some kind of protection that's
why annie chose to use a custom-made
pickle barrel
she designed the vessel herself first
she sketched a diagram and made a
prototype out of cardboard
then she hand-picked each piece of wood
that had to be used for the barrel
a local company that produced beverage
kegs used this wood to construct the
barrel
it was an uneven five foot tall and
three foot wide container
made of white oak and weighing about 160
pounds
it was secured by 10 wide metal hoops
inside the cask
there was a leather harness to prevent
annie from bouncing around
and a mattress to cushion the fall a
massive 200 pound metal block was placed
at the bottom of the barrel
it had to serve as ballast keeping the
barrel in the upright position
soon everything was ready for the show
andy decided to perform it on her 63rd
birthday
on october 24th 1901. curiously the
woman told the reporter she was in her
40s
people who were supposed to help taylor
with her plunge were skeptical
even on the day when it had to take
place the event was put off several
times
the assistants were afraid that if
something went wrong they would be to
blame
but finally at about 4 p.m the barrel
was loaded onto a row boat
and annie climbed inside she was holding
her lucky heart-shaped pillow
the assistant screwed down the lid and
pumped in some fresh air
there had to be enough for her to
breathe for one hour but the entire
trick was supposed to take much less
time
about 20 minutes finally the hole used
for venting the air was
corked and the brave woman floated away
on her
risky business several thousand
onlookers were eyeing the process
the container with annie inside was
towed from the niagara river's deeper
canadian side
toward the horseshoe falls it's the
largest of the two cascades that form
niagara falls
near goat island the barrel was set
adrift and floated toward the mighty
cataract
was any nervous yeah that would be a
great understatement
her heart was beating wildly in her
chest her breathing was fast
too fast her hands and feet were cold
and her palms sweaty
it felt as if there wasn't enough air
inside the wooden container
but the woman was determined to be brave
suddenly the barrel accelerated caught
in the current
and dashed toward the edge of the
waterfall people watching from the shore
couldn't see it anymore
the thing was lost in the mist
surrounding the whirling water
inside her fragile shelter annie was
listening to the roar of the falls
it was growing louder and louder a
moment of bizarre
calm at the very edge and the barrel
plunged from the height greater than the
arc to triumph in paris
the fall was shorter than annie had
expected mere seconds later her vessel
hit the surface and went underwater
the barrel was spinning wildly and
tossed around like a twig
a moment later it resurfaced the vessel
was intact
but water had already started to seep in
after drifting downstream for a while
the barrel came to a stop at a rock in
the river
immediately andy's assistants were next
to it a bunch of anxious men
tore the lid off annie seasick bruised
and clutching her soaked pillow
was looking back at them one of the
rescuers was so shocked to see her alive
that he grabbed a megaphone and shouted
this news to the spectators
the maid of the mist a tour boat
lingering nearby
blew her horn to celebrate annie's
success
and he said later that she had lost
consciousness only once
right after the fall the rest of the
time she was alert and feeling
everything that was happening to the
barrel
annie found the fame she had been
seeking she was nicknamed the goddess of
water
and got celebrity status almost
instantly after her adventure
people even wrote poems about her sadly
she didn't manage to earn as much money
as she had hoped and her fame was
fleeting
annie wrote memoirs and she was going to
sell the book near niagara falls
but her manager disappeared having
stolen her barrel
and he spent almost all her savings on
private detectives
trying to get the thing back she had
been planning to use it as a prop while
giving public speeches
some time later the barrel was spotted
in chicago
but before annie could get her hands on
it the barrel vanished again
this time for good
the only thing annie could do was to
pose for photographs at her souvenir
stand
she also tried to write a novel and
reconstruct her fall on film
but no movie was ever shown in 1906
the woman even mentioned she could take
a second plunge into the waterfall
but it never happened several years
after annie's stunt
both the canadian and new york
authorities introduced special laws
they were supposed to prevent risk
takers from following in the school
teachers daring footsteps
it didn't stop people from trying and
facing huge fines
well dare i say it it was more fun than
a barrel of monkeys